---
layout: post
title: Why Digital Forensics? Part 2
date: 2026-07-07
categories: DFIR
---

With all the passion I have for the field, I cold called bunch of companies and law firms and got a job at Data Rescue Labs as a Digital Forensics Analyst. 
I've been loving the work. I image computers, phones, and other devices and put them through Magnet Axiom, PC-3000, Cellebrite, and FTK imager. 
Depending on the investigation, I have to sometimes use Registry Explorer (Eric Zimmerman), Volatility, DB sqlite, MCFed, WireShark, and many other tools.
After all the investigation is done, I write a report with what I found and a summary of what it means for the client. 

I think this whole work is a piece of art. From looking for evidence, piecing the evidence together, coming to a conclusion, to writing a report. 
The investigation itself feels like a journey on it's own. There are times when I get frustrated since I cannot find things and when things don't make sense
when you try to piece them together. But at those times writing them down and thinking it through with patience and accuracy helps a lot. 

The investigation itself also feels meaningful that I can help someone out and I do it for truth and justice. I can't wait to invesigate more cases and learn more 
tools, insights, and ways to finish the investigation with accuracy and speed. 

My next goal is to work at a law firm where I can work with law enforcement directly and develop tools that are faster and more accurate than the tools we have right now.


