---
layout: post
title: Bartending
date: 2026-01-09
categories: Interest
---

I have been in the hospitality environment for over 4 years. I started off at a korean barbeque restaurant called Daldongnae. I worked there for 4 and a half year as a server. In the beginning, I did struggle a lot. I was getting shit on by my boss almost everyday. But I stayed and I grew STRONGER! I became one of the best(fastest) worker in 2 months. However, I was lowkey struggling with customer service since I am quite a blunt person. I used to get quite a few bad reviews lol. For the last 2 years of working there, I worked on it a lot and I never got it around my 3rd-4th year.  I've learned basic hospitality skills, working with other people as a team, a good of understanding what management is good and bad, multitasking skills, prioritizing what's important and so on. After working around 4 years, I figured I don't have much to learn from that place anymore. I mean as any hospitality workers, I hopped around a bit from places to places, and I really wanted ot learn bartending.

Luckily enough, the owner at the bar I currently work at(Watson's) saw my potential and took me in. I am very grateful for it actually. But yeah, I've been learning bartending. Yesterday, I kinda realized that I get excited when I go to the customer and get their drink orders. I also get excited making the drinks. I think a big part of what I like bartending is the crafting part. I used to do a lot of craftings when I was young. I used to build a lot of gundams, puzzles, and just whatver that's hands on I would say I'm pretty good at it and I really enjoy it. With making cocktails, I have to follow the exact instructions, exact measurements, use the right glass, and the presentation of it has to be good. With inventing cocktails, there are a lot of creativity inquired for it which I also find it intriguing. 

I think personally, making cocktails is complicated enough for people to know the taste of different old fashions at different bars and have a preference. But also, it is simple enough so that anyone can make it and people go for their specific drink because of a certain of aspect of it. Also, the more you learn and the more you understand, the more there is. I mean that is with any profession but I think something about the fact that cocktails could be made by anyone and seems so easy but there is a lot of depth to it makes it another onion interest. 

One customer mentioned how if you want to figure out what kind of drink a person would like, you can ask what kind of movies they watch. I found this extremely intriguing. He said something along the line of if they like to watch horror movies, its more likely they would enjoy a smokey harsh drink. I never realized how cocktails can relate to psychology in that sense. 

I think with bartending, it's more than just making good cocktails. It's about being able to multitask, making cocktails and talking to people. You have to be thinking about what you're going to be doing next consistently. It's like having a structured list of orders in your brain. Talking with people at the bar is also pretty interesting and fun. Personally, it constantly reminds me that there are more things going on outside of my own little shell. I think it's very easy to get caught up on your own life like paying for bills, going to work, working out, and all that. But when you talk to people, listen to their own little stories, listen to where they just came back from, what they do for work, what they're doing for the weekend and so on, I realize that world is a much bigger place and there are people who are also living if that makes sense. 
