---
layout: post
title: Why Cybersecurity?
---

After graduating from University of Toronto with a computer science, I was struggling. Then I ended up taking a cybersecurity course in google. After the first couple videos, I knew this is going to be my career. I have never felt so passionate and excited about going home and taking the next course. For me, cybersecurity is like an onion (well known quote from Shrek). The more you learn, the more depth there is and more I want to peel it out and be a master at it. There were multiple reasons why I fell in love with cybersecurity from the outer layer of it. 
I have always been driven by curiosity and a desire to investigate complex problems. For me, it is about the process and the “why” rather than a good result that makes me satisfied. I get these thoughts on both logical problems and ethical problems. For logical problems, computer science courses in school were a majority of them. I also enjoy playing chess and playing complex board games with my friends. Another very intriguing part for me was the ethical impact of cybersecurity. I am someone who always tries to be a better me. My competition is me yesterday vs me today rather than me vs world. In this process, I do think about morals and values about myself a lot. How I want to live my life and what values and morals are important. While you do this kind of thinking, it actually requires a lot of problem solving. You have to weigh out different possibilities and figure out which path you want to take. Then, you also have to understand “why” societal norms are important if you really want to follow them rather than just following them because everyone does it. 
Coming from someone whose brain works this way, cybersecurity felt just right for me. The combination of ethical, logical, societal impact, the analytical mindset you have to have, the importance of “why”s rather than the outcome, and my computer science background definitely helped. It felt fulfilling, and it still is. 
Then I wondered, which area do I want to dig into. I have always been fascinated by crime scenes. I grew up watching a lot of CSI, I watch a lot of crime investigating videos on youtube, and a lot of documentaries on Netflix. Name a criminal documentary and I would probably know about it. Now, with this, I also have this bad habit of digging into things. If I want to find out something, I will dig into every little single thing. I wouldn’t necessarily say this is a good habit… but… if I can turn this habit into digging into criminal’s tech devices and provide good for society, well that’s a double whammy. Also tracing back to what someone did, putting all these bits and pieces of information together, figuring out what happened, and figuring out WHY someone did that sounds like so much fun. And that is how I decided to go to the digital forensics pathway. 
In the pathway of looking for mentors, this one mentor asked me, what is something that you can do 8 hours straight without getting bored or tired. I just knew, digital forensics is the one. It is the career that I really want to pursue. For people out there who are interested in this field, if you love ethics, digging into things, understanding why people do such things, I would say go for it. And if you feel really passionate about something, reach out to people who also share the same passion with you. They will see how much you love something and will help you out. Without these people, I would have been very lost in my journey. Well thanks for reading about how much I love digital forensics. I’ll be yapping about some tasks I’ve done. 
