---
layout: post
title: Are humans born bad or good?
date: 2025-12-15
categories: ["Curious Minds"]
---

This is probably one of the most controversial topic in philosophy. Are human beings bad or good at their core. My answer is it depends on the person. I used to think that everyone is born good in their heart. I used to think that how they grew up, how they were taught, and the things they've been through shape who they are. So, even if the action itself is "bad", since their core is "good", I've always thought ok, this person is doing this because of xyz that happened in their life. This made me forgive a lot of bad things that people did. I realized that I am the one who ends up getting hurt over and over again. After getting hurt countless number of times, I started to think that people may be bad at heart. Everyone has an evil side. Even the nicest person you know sometimes show that selfish, mean side of them. There was this coworker I know and he was actually one of the nicest person I've ever met in my life. One day, I asked him what values and morals drives him to be that way. I was expecting some kind of strong belief in his core. The answer I got was, "I just don't want to get hated by people.". Then is he really a good person? Are his actions truly good if the reasoning behind is not coming from a strong belief but more so for external validation? Some serial killers out there are known for performing a lot of good to people to cover up their evilness underneath themselves. This is obviously an extreme example, but then is the good that they provided truly good? 

I ended up talking about this to my other friend of mine, and he always gives me this argument of if they are doing good, the why doesn't matter, it's still good. If you're doing bad, same theory. I don't think I necessarily agree with that part. But yeah, after countless number of talks, thoughts, and debates, I've came to a conclusion that it depends on the person. So I had a friend who used to get bullied when they were growing up. His parents are very non expressive and there's not much warmth in his house. Now obviously, he's that non chalant, mean person. I was always understanding of him because I understood where he's coming from. But then, I met this very friend of mine and her upbringing were quite similar. But she's one of the nicest person I've known. She not scared of giving love to others, she's not scared of receiving love, and she's not scared of expressing herself. Then I realized, the upbringing and why's doesn't really matter. It's about what you do with that. It's that little story where there is a guy who never drinks and there is a guy who's an alcoholic and they both had an alcoholic father. Obviously, all the little experiences in the past shape who you are today. However, it's on you to decide what you're going to do with it. Are you going to be stuck in whatever trauma you've been through and be the same person, or are you going to become a better person by learning from your mistakes? Are you going to let history repeat itself, or are you going to conquer the future? 
