---
layout: post
title: Passionfruit
date: 2026-01-19
categories: ["Curious Minds"]
---

2026 is the new 2016, people say.  Posting 2016 photos is a trend right now. Couple days ago, I went through some old photos of mine to look for photos of myself from 2016. Then, I started scrolling down my entire album. Looking back at the old photos reminds me of those times, the good times and the bad times, and how I felt at the time.

I don't really try to look back at the past, or actually, maybe I'm just not good at remembering things. But looking through the old photos definitely made me appreciate the things I have right now. To be frank, I've actually had quite a lot of toxic relationships. I was moving on from one relationship to another, trying to chase what I didn't get from my previous relationship. Of course, I was too caught up on things that I never really sat down and looked back at it thoroughly. 

Then, I took a long break and I met someone. I wouldn't say we particularly started off with so much emotions of love in between us. It was more amicable, slow, and steady. But it gave me a lot of time and space to actually get to know the person. Eventually, it helped me trust him as a person and like him for who he is. Recently, I think we're both at a point where we're very much in love. And I would like to say it's actually very nice. 

Love gives you the power to live with passion. Without the fear of getting hurt and without the fear of abandonment, you feel safe to feel love and pain. Being able to embrace the emotions as it is the nicest thing you can have. No walls, no ego, but approaching emotions with genuinity. You can feel the songs in your heart. You can see the world with your heart. You can love with your heart. 

I used to think that love is not an important factor in life. But, I can see how it changes your world. I can't wait to be loved and to love more. 






