---
layout: post
title: Are you scared of Therapy?
date: 2026-01-09
categories: ["Curious Minds"]
---

I've met many people who've done therapy and I've met many people who've never done therapy. People who've never done therapy sometimes say something along the lines of how they don't believe in it. Well as someone who've done it before, I just wanted to explain what it is like so that maybe if you are a bit scared, you can gain the courage to take a foot outside the door. 

Let's say there's some problem in your life. Like your boss is being annoying or you just can't get over your ex. You feel the need to talk to somebody. So you go and yap to your close friend. They are listening and listening... and then at some point, don't you feel obligated to maybe listen to your friend too since they were listening to you the whole time? And the bigger the problem, more frequent this topic is going to come up. So you go to your friend and talk about it again and again... and then at some point you go "oh, am I talking about this too much?" These are some cons of talking to a "person" in general. Now, I would say therapy fixed that minor issue. 

You go to your therapist. You are there to talk about YOURSELF. They are there to listen to YOU. And this happens with a "transaction(money)". But because there is that transaction, it makes it feel okay to just talk about yourself and the same issue over and over again. I mean, that is their job. I guess that would be an easier way to approach therapy. 

Now they are not just there to listen. I think therapists are great at asking the right questions. So basically, you go and yap and yap. You might be there because you want to understand yourself. You might be there because you want to fix a problem. You might be there because you just need someone to talk to. Well ultimately, I would say the main purpose of going to therapy is understanding yourself and being a better you. 

Now you might think therapists give you all the solution to your problems in your life and give you direct answers about who you are. Not really. That is actually YOUR duty. But, the therapist are experts at asking you the right questions to lead you in the right direction of your thinking process. You just ramble and ramble, and then they ask you this question, then you stop, and think. You think, and think, and then you start talking again, and while you are talking, you realize oh, I was thinking about this. Oh, I was feeling this way. Oh, I do this. Oh, I am this kind of person. 

I would say these two things are the main key of therapy. It might sound scary, but it's more of a process of understanding yourself. I find this process very interesting. When you are in there with your therapist, you're in this space where it feels like it's just you vs you. The experience might be different for everyone, but I would like to say it's definitely worth the experience. Obviously, you gotta find someone you vibe with, but still, give it a try! 
